paul talks to felix about the gospel 
righteousness, self control, and the coming judgment making felix very uncomfortable. felix becomes afraid and ends the conversation: "that's enough for now ill call you again when i find time" 

felix being uncomfortable or 두려워하다 when he hears about jesus christ mirrors how i felt this year. felt like i was surrounded by people who were aginst the idea of religious beliefs. 

today's passage shows paul's extereme patience, resilience, trust towards god which in turn extends to his trust towards the justice system and the people. Throuhout the two years he was kept in prison by felix, he never gives in. in fact he talks to felix about 오히려 복음을 전합니다.  he firmly stands his ground and waits for fair trial while felix on the other hand wants bribes from paul. 

today's passage shows how much paul values resilience, trust, and patience. because he has all these for god, he extends this for the people. even though it seemed like felix was solely trying to take bribes from paul, paul shares gospel to him. felix ultimately chooses comfort over resilience, runs away from listening to self-control and secrely hopes paul would give him monetary things which leads him to imprisoning paul for two years. 

at first, i thought that felix was a reasonable man who allowed paul's friends to visit him. now i realize that it was to use him for monetary gain. just as felix ran away from the hard truth of the gospel, he chooses to take advantange of his position and tries to exploit it for personal gains. 

unforunately felixes are everywhere in the corporate life. interns compete with each other for a return offer, engineers are quick to blame others for critical mistakes, and some managers take advantage of their engineers to take credit for what they've done. i think this passage teaches an important lesson that even if you are surrounded by people like felix, it is important to always remind yourself of the convictions that define you. those beliefs that you hold important that define you as a person and those values that take you closer to god. i will take this as a reminder to always keep your beliefs strong and pray that i will remember how paul was resilient when faced with situations to be easily persuaded the other way. 




i think it will be impossible for me to live like paul. i am always thinking of ways to improve myself but the things i study, books that i buy, jobs that i take never was about someone else it was always about me. 

today's passage reminded me of the time i met Mike someone who was kind enough to stop in the middle of the road and talk to me about Christianity. he was wondering what churches to join in Irvine 



오늘 말씀은 바울이 얼마나 인내와 믿음, 그리고 신뢰를 중요하게 생각했는지를 보여줍니다. 바울은 하나님을 믿고 기다릴 줄 아는 사람이었기 때문에 사람들에게도 같은 마음으로 대했습니다. 아무리 불공평한 미움을 받아도 바울은 마음을 바꾸지 않고 꾿꾿히 기다렸습니다. 벨릭스가 뇌물을 받으려고만 했지만 바울은 그에게 복음을 전하고, 벨릭스는 결국 진리보다 편안함을 선택했습니다. 바울의 말을 듣기보다, 돈을 바라고 그를 2년 동안 감옥에 가두었습니다.

처음에는 벨릭스가 바울의 친구들이 찾아올 수 있게 해줘서 좋은 사람이라 생각했습니다. 하지만 나중에는 그가 바울을 이용하려 했다는 다른 의도가 있다는 것을 보입니다. 진리에서 도망친 벨릭스는 자기의 권력을 이용해 이익만 챙기려는 사람이었습니다.

현실에서도 벨릭스 같은 사람들은 많습니다. 회사에서는 인턴들이 서로 경쟁하고, 실수하면 남을 탓하고, 또 어떤 사람들은 다른 사람의 성과를 가로채기도 합니다. 이 말씀은 우리에게 주위가 아무리 불공평해도, 자신의 믿음과 가치관을 지켜야 한다는 것을 가르쳐줍니다. 저에게는 이것이 진정한 단련인 것 같습니다: 우리의 인생에 힘들고 불공평한일이 있을만큼 우리도 믿음과 가치를 지키는 것을 그만큼 노력을 해야되는 것 입니다.저는 오늘 말씀을 통해 바울처럼 흔들리지 않고 끝까지 믿음을 지키는 사람이 되고 싶다고 느꼈습니다.  어려운 상황에서도 하나님을 향한 믿음을 잊지 않도록, 항상 기도하며 나아가고 싶습니다.