paul gets warned from the lord himself saying they will not accept his testimony and he tries to reason with the lord saying that the fact that he was from jerusalem, they should believe him. this is the first time i've seen paul try to reason with the lord and go with his decision. however, when the jews lashes paul it was blatantly obvious that the lord's words were true: the jews weren't going to be convinced and he would spend his time better elsewhere spreading the gospel throughout other nations. they stop lashing out at him after they figure out that he was a roman himself.

i have a complicated relationship with my bigger brother. we used to play together all the time as kids but nowadays we don't talk much as our lives have diverged so extremely and our personalities are very different. whenever he would come visit our family, he would always keep to himself. wouldn't talk much at the dinner table, our trips, or whenever i wanted to ask him a question he would be dismissive. after having the notion that he just didn't want to talk to me. one day i heard what he was mumbling through the walls as our rooms were beside each other. thinking that he was just playing video games, i ignored it at first but upon close listening, he was memorizing terms from his medical school studies while weeping. later on, i realized that he wasn't talking much because he was so stressed he might fail out of medical school and told no one in our family about it. it is so easy for humans to judge someone silently and in my case i am ashamed by the fact that i did this for my own blood-related brother thinking that he secretly didn't want to talk to any of us when he was carrying all the stress and burden to himself. 

the romans who beat paul in today's passage reminded me of how easy i judged my brother and how easy it was for me to clear misunderstandings by simply talking with them. 
i'm thankful that i got to read this today and will think about this whenever my brother makes time out of his busy schedule to see us. 

whenever he came home to visit our family, he would always not only be quiet but also he would have an attitude. 
for example, after cooking a meal for the whole family, he would silently complain about this or that about the things that i've cooked so i had to read the room every time he was in the dinner table. i was very annoyed at his demeanor so i lashed out at him telling him that if he doesn't like it he doesn't need to eat it. 
we ended up arguing awhile 


바울은 주님께서 유대인들이 증언을 받아들이지 않을 것이다라고 경고하셨지만, 바울은 예루살렘 출신인 자신을 믿어줄 거라 생각하며 주님께 이유를 말했습니다. 하지만 결국 주님의 말씀대로 유대인들은 바울의 말을 듣지 않았고 오히려 그를 때렸습니다. 그때 바울이 로마 시민이라는 사실이 알려지자 그들은 그를 때리는 것을 멈췄습니다.이 일을 통해 바울은 주님의 말씀이 참이라는 것을 깨닫고, 다른 나라에 복음을 전하는 것이 자신의 사명임을 알게 되었습니다.

이 이야기를 읽으며 제 형이 생각났습니다. 일년에 한번쯤 볼까말까하는 큰형과 사이가 점점 멀어가고있습니다.
어릴 땐 형과 자주 놀았지만, 커가면서 서로의 삶이 달라지다 보니 거의 대화를 하지 않게 되었습니다.. 형이 집에 와도 조용했고 식사 자리에서도 말을 잘 하지 않았습니다. 저는 그냥 형이 우리 가족과 이야기하기 싫어한다고 생각했습니다. 
그런데 어느 날 벽 너머로 형이 중얼거리는 소리를 들었는데 처음엔 비디오 게임하는 줄 알았습니다. 하지만 자세히 들어보니 의대 공부 내용을 외우면서 울고 있었습니다. 그때 알았습니다 — 형이 힘든 시간을 혼자 견디고 있었다는 걸요.
저는 아무것도 모르고 형을 오해했던 제 자신이 너무 부끄러웠습니다.

오늘 말씀 속에서 바울을 때리던 로마 사람들을 보며, 저도 얼마나 쉽게 제 형을 판단했는지 깨달았습니다.
조금만 대화를 나눴다면 형의 마음을 더 빨리 이해할 수 있었을 껏 같았습니다.
이제는 형이 바쁜 시간 중에 가족을 만나러 올 때마다 오늘 말씀을 꼭 떠올리며 감사한 마음으로 대하려고 합니다.